README.md, before:

# Natural Language Tools

## Abstract

After leaning about IBM's Watson *1, and reading Mind vs Machine *2, I wanted to better understand the state of Natural Language Processing, 
Artificial Intelligence and Natural Language Generation. This project is not a port of any existing libraries, although it does contain some 
code ported from Pythons NLTK, it serves more of a glue layer between existing tools, ideas and projects already used today.

* 1 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watson_(artificial_intelligence_software)
* 2 http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2011/03/mind-vs-machine/8386/


## Setup

Download, fork or clone the code, setup the 2 dependancies below.

* To use the POS Tagger download and install from http://code.google.com/p/hunpos/
* To use the Named Entity Tagger download and install from http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/CRF-NER.shtml

## What's Included

### Tokenization 
   - SpaceTokenizer
   - TabTokenizer
   - RegexpTokenizer   
   - WordTokenizer
   - WordPunctTokenizer (new)
   - TreeBank Tokenizer (new)
   
### POS Tagger (Parts of Speech Tagger)
   - HunposTagger
      - Project Home http://code.google.com/p/hunpos/ (DEPENDANCY)
      - 38 POS Tags http://www.ling.upenn.edu/courses/Fall_2003/ling001/penn_treebank_pos.html

### NE Tagger (Named Entity Tagger)
  - The Stanford Named Entity Recognizer - http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/CRF-NER.shtml (DEPENDANCY)
    - Download and run the Java Server
    - java -mx600m -cp stanford-ner.jar edu.stanford.nlp.ie.NERServer -loadClassifier classifiers/ner-eng-ie.crf-4-conll-distsim.ser.gz -port 8000
 
### Sentence Analyses
  - Break a sentence down into different parts, subject, predicate etc.

### Stemmer
  - Using the Porter Stemming Algorithm.
  - More information about the algorithm can be found here - http://tartarus.org/~martin/PorterStemmer/.
  
### TF-IDF (term frequency–inverse document frequency)
  - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf%E2%80%93idf
  
### n-gram
  - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N-gram
  - bigrams
  - trigrams
  
    `Util.bigram(['The','fox','ran','fast']); //  [ [ 'The', 'fox' ],[ 'fox', 'ran' ],[ 'ran', 'fast' ] ]
    Util.trigram(['The','fox','ran','fast']); // [ [ 'The', 'fox', 'ran' ], [ 'fox', 'ran', 'fast' ] ]`
    
 
### Wordnet Bindings
 - Wordnet bindings have been started, you must download the wordnet database before you can play with it.
 
 
## What's Not yet Included aka TODO

### Sentence Boundary Detection
 - http://www.attivio.com/blog/57-unified-information-access/263-doing-things-with-words-part-two-sentence-boundary-detection.html
 - NLTK Source http://code.google.com/p/nltk/source/browse/trunk/nltk/nltk/tokenize/punkt.py

### Sentiment Analysis
 - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentiment_analysis
 
### Bayes' theorem
 - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayes'_theorem
 
### NLU

#### Implement YAGO 
 This is started and well underway - http://www.mpi-inf.mpg.de/yago-naga/yago/


#### DBPedia Bindings
 
## Other NODE Projects of Interest
 - http://harthur.github.com/brain/

## MIT License

Copyright (c) 2011 Rob Ellis

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Updated Readme to point to Natural

README.md, after:

# Natural Language Tools

## Update

This project is being merged into Natural, Visit [https://github.com/NaturalNode/natural](https://github.com/NaturalNode/natural) for the latest changes.

## Abstract

After leaning about IBM's Watson *1, and reading Mind vs Machine *2, I wanted to better understand the state of Natural Language Processing, 
Artificial Intelligence and Natural Language Generation. This project is not a port of any existing libraries, although it does contain some 
code ported from Pythons NLTK, it serves more of a glue layer between existing tools, ideas and projects already used today.

* 1 http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watson_(artificial_intelligence_software)
* 2 http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2011/03/mind-vs-machine/8386/


## Setup

Download, fork or clone the code, setup the 2 dependancies below.

* To use the POS Tagger download and install from http://code.google.com/p/hunpos/
* To use the Named Entity Tagger download and install from http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/CRF-NER.shtml

## What's Included

### Tokenization 
   - SpaceTokenizer
   - TabTokenizer
   - RegexpTokenizer   
   - WordTokenizer
   - WordPunctTokenizer (new)
   - TreeBank Tokenizer (new)
   
### POS Tagger (Parts of Speech Tagger)
   - HunposTagger
      - Project Home http://code.google.com/p/hunpos/ (DEPENDANCY)
      - 38 POS Tags http://www.ling.upenn.edu/courses/Fall_2003/ling001/penn_treebank_pos.html

### NE Tagger (Named Entity Tagger)
  - The Stanford Named Entity Recognizer - http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/CRF-NER.shtml (DEPENDANCY)
    - Download and run the Java Server
    - java -mx600m -cp stanford-ner.jar edu.stanford.nlp.ie.NERServer -loadClassifier classifiers/ner-eng-ie.crf-4-conll-distsim.ser.gz -port 8000
 

### Sentence Analyses
  - Break a sentence down into different parts, subject, predicate etc.

### Stemmer
  - Using the Porter Stemming Algorithm.
  - More information about the algorithm can be found here - http://tartarus.org/~martin/PorterStemmer/.
  
### TF-IDF (term frequency–inverse document frequency)
  - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tf%E2%80%93idf
  
### n-gram
  - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/N-gram
  - bigrams
  - trigrams
  
    `Util.bigram(['The','fox','ran','fast']); //  [ [ 'The', 'fox' ],[ 'fox', 'ran' ],[ 'ran', 'fast' ] ]
    Util.trigram(['The','fox','ran','fast']); // [ [ 'The', 'fox', 'ran' ], [ 'fox', 'ran', 'fast' ] ]`
    
 
### Wordnet Bindings
 - Wordnet bindings have been started, you must download the wordnet database before you can play with it.
 
 
## What's Not yet Included aka TODO

### Sentence Boundary Detection
 - http://www.attivio.com/blog/57-unified-information-access/263-doing-things-with-words-part-two-sentence-boundary-detection.html
 - NLTK Source http://code.google.com/p/nltk/source/browse/trunk/nltk/nltk/tokenize/punkt.py

### Sentiment Analysis
 - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentiment_analysis
 
### Bayes' theorem
 - http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayes'_theorem
 
### NLU

#### Implement YAGO 
 This is started and well underway - http://www.mpi-inf.mpg.de/yago-naga/yago/


#### DBPedia Bindings
 
## Other NODE Projects of Interest
 - http://harthur.github.com/brain/

## MIT License

Copyright (c) 2011 Rob Ellis

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
